# Chronicles Simulation Program
The Chronicles Simulation program is designed to test and receive calculations obtained by running thousands or even millions of certain simulations. The following types of simulations are listed below:
## Check Simulation
Rolls a skill check with a specific modifier, advantage value, and disadvantage value displaying the percentage of times each result is rolled and the average result. A check in the Chronicles TTRPG system is determined by rolling 3d6 (three six-sided dice), adding the result together, and adding the modifier to the result. Advantage and disadvantage values cancel each other out, meaning that a check with advantage 3 and disadvantage 2 is the equivalent of advantage 1. When a check has advantage, you roll an additional number of dice equal to the advantage value and keep the highest three dice. When a check has disadvantage, you roll an additional number of dice equal to the disadvantage value and keep the lowest three dice. If both are 0 then you roll 3d6 normally.
## Attack Simulation
Works similarly to a check, except it is compared to a defense. If the result is equal to or exceeds the defense then the attack deals the base damage. If it is lower than the defense, it deals 0 damage (or in other words, a miss). For every 5 the attack check exceeds the defense, it also deals an additional 1 damage. The average damage and the percentage of dealing specific amounts of damage are displayed in the results.
## Combat Simulation
The Combat Simulation requires characters to be created. This is either done by using the "Create Character" menu option to create characters that are saved to a text file which can be loaded into the Combat Simulation, or by creating it directly in the combat simulation. The "Friendly" side and "Hostile" side battle each other for thousands of iterations, and the percentage of times each side one is displayed in the results. A combat consists of rolling initiative to determine turn order, acting in turn order, and each turn each character taking 4 actions to attack an opponent with the lowest health. This incorporates various mechanics unique to the Chronicles TTRPG including having negative health when "dying" (when the character can only take 1 action to attack) and being defeated at negative health beyond the character's Proficiency (where they no longer take turns). Because implementing many features would be far too complex, only basic attacks have been implemented (also note that each time a character attacks on a single turn, their attack gains disadvantage 2 for each time they've already attacked this turn).